We want to actually use this thing.
Let's get these showing up.
So I'm going to go back into shop.astro,
And we're gonna import that Cart.
And now I did it as a named export out
of habit, I don't do default exports.
So that's a preference, not a rule.
And I'm gonna grab that components and
shop.
Nope, cart is the one that we want.
And then I'm gonna
replace this with a Cart.
Okay, so this looks like it's working.
But it's not yet
because we rendered this statically.
So this is maybe the biggest
gotta get used to it
of Astro is that by default
nothing is interactive.
So even though we've built this
interactive component, by default,
it's going to render whatever
its standard state is.
And then when we click buttons and
stuff, it won't do anything.
So to make this actually work,
we're going to set it to client:only.
And then because we're
using multiple frameworks,
we have to tell it which one we're using.
So we're saying client:only solid-js.
And now this is hydrated.
This is actually a running
JavaScript component.
So the next thing we wanna do here
is figure out a way to actually put
some things into the cart.
So we're gonna create a new component,
and this one's gonna be built in React.
So we are going to say, add-to-cart.tsx.
And this one is powered by React.
So we're gonna override
the the TSConfig by putting
in our own jsxImportSource and
configuring to React.
And that'll allow us to, Autocomplete
is gonna work the way we expect,
it's not gonna say you can't use class or
className or things like that.
That's why this stuff is worth setting up.
And one of the reasons
that I do like TypeScript
is that you can get those
more useful errors.
So next we want that
addItemToCart out of the store.
And then we can export
a const called AddToCart and
that one is going to return an item,
or it's going to
accept an item as a prop, and
that item will be a ShopItem.
So that is coming out of our
types that we already declared.
Okay, let me make this bigger so
that it's not hidden.
So inside, we get a nice simple component.
I'm always thrilled when I get
to write a component like this.
So this is a button and
it includes a className.
We're back in React land.
So we're gonna use that
big-link class again.
onClick, and inside of our onClick
I'm going to addItemToCart and
pass in the item, and then Add To Cart.
And that's the whole thing, very,
very simple React component,
probably not worth bringing
in the entire React library.
But again, this is for
demonstration purposes.
So back in our shop-items,
where we have that TODO for the cart,
we want to replace this
with our React component.
So up at the top here we can import,
AddToCart from components and add-to-cart.
And then down here we are going
to replace this chunk of code,
this TODO item with our
AddToCart component.
We're gonna pass in the item from Astro.
So the same item that we have here can be
passed into the React component as a prop.
So no magic or
anything necessary for that.
And then we need to set
it to be client:only.
And I'm not gonna use anything
other than the client:only.
So let me talk about these for
a quick second.
So, by default,
you don't get any client interaction.
Astro lets you selectively hydrate
using any of these attributes here.
We are using the only option
because this button won't
work if you don't have JavaScript enabled,
right?
So we're making this into a single page
app, it's just a single page island.
It's one little island of interactivity
that only works if JavaScript is enabled.
If we had something that works and
is progressively enhanced as a component,
then we can use client:load or
client:visible.
I really like client:visible because what
that means is that the component won't
rehydrate until it's scrolled into view.
So if you're working on a dashboard and
that dashboard is several page heights
long, and you've got some stuff that's
really interactive at the bottom,
somebody might not ever
scroll down to that.
So, why load that JavaScript and
use up their network bandwidth?
Instead, you just use client:visible and
under the hood Astro is using, I believe,
an intersection observer.
And when the component gets
close to the viewport,
it'll hydrate that component for you.
And the user's none the wiser, but
they just spent a few less kilobytes and
they're probably happier for that.
Idle means wait for
the first moment that the browser is idle.
Load is treat this like regular JavaScript
and it can be part of the blocking load.
Media, I think you get to set on
the same thing as a CSS media query.
I haven't actually used that one and
I haven't had a reason to use that one,
so I'm not gonna pretend I
know how that one works.
[LAUGH] But so
we're gonna set this to be client:only.
And again,
because we're using multiple frameworks,
we're gonna use React,
set that =react and Save.
Okay, so assuming I haven't typoed
anything, this is going to work now.
So I can come in here,
we can shop for some sandwiches,
and start adding things to our cart,
and we get those items if we want to.
And remember, I'm clicking on
a button that's powered by React.
And this cart is powered by Solid.
And it's all linked
together using Nano Stores.
So as I'm updating these,
they are working as expected
as if they were all using
the same framework.
Because Astro is acting as an umbrella and
Nano Stores gives us the ability
to quickly relay data between these
different islands of interactivity.
So this is pretty powerful stuff, right?
I was blown away when
I saw this first work.
And I think it's really just
such a powerful testimony for,
you can take this a lot further
than you may have expected.
And getting those benefits of
the fact that if I go in here and
disable JavaScript, you disable
JavaScript and I reload the page.
What we get here is a note that
you need to order by phone, but
you can still see all of these things.
The shopping still works, the ability
to order is still there, just by phone.
And we didn't lose the core
functionality of the website.
And then when I re-enable JavaScript,
We get this additional functionality,
but we didn't have to rehydrate this.
I didn't have to load and execute
component code to get these images and
text that aren't dynamic back on the page.
Only this Cart, and only these Add To Cart
buttons have to be loaded and executed.
So this is a great way to build
some very dynamic experiences in
such a way that you're not adding
unnecessary code to your page.
You're only bringing in what's necessary
to get the job done that you need
to get done.
There's not any just in case code.
There's not any you gotta use it because
you got to go all in to get the features
of this thing.
It's just selectively as you need it,
add one or
more features at a time to get that going.
>> I just wanted to know if it's
possible to use Nano Stores to
maintain state across pages?
>> Yes, there are extra things you can do.
You can put it into IndexedDB, or
local storage, or something like that.
And then kinda rehydrate it out.
There are extra packages
that make that work, okay.
[BLANK AUDIO]